When we talk about the world today, one of the words that we frequently hear is “globalization” ― the idea that the world is becoming increasingly interconnected and, in many ways, homogeneous. We communicate with people around the globe, share ideas, and exchange information every day, and have a better understanding of other cultures. In many cities, you can go out and find restaurants serving Italian, Japanese, Greek, and Indian food, as well as cuisine from lots of other countries. Companies like Apple, Nik, Samsung, and McDonald’s sell their products all over the world and have become household names in almost every country. However, over the last 30 years or so, two key changes have taken place. The first is the way in which these multinational companies promote their products, and the second is the way in which they make subtle changes to the products they offer depending on the consumers they are targeting.
Let’s start with the first area: advertising and marketing. In the past, many companies would use the same advertising campaign, whether they were in the US, Brazil, China, or Russia. They might have translated the text they used from English into Portuguese, Mandarin Chinese, Russian, or whatever the main language of that particular country was. Even then, the actual slogans would often remain the same. In other words, whichever country you were in, you would see the same types of adverts, the same billboards, and the same images that were associated with a particular brand. 
However, in recent years, almost all big multinationals have realized that they need different marketing strategies because of the differing cultural values consumers have in different countries. To do this, companies have put together specific advertising campaigns for individual countries, thought carefully about the best way to sell their products to specific customers, rather than simply going with a one-size-fits-all strategy. In other words, there has been a realization that to be globally successful requires focusing on the local expectations rather than using the same methods and messages worldwide. This approach is known as “Glocalization”. 
The second change we mentioned was adapting products to the local market. This might seem logical as both tastes and interests are different from place to place, and can often be influenced by all sorts of factors including cultural ones. A good example of local adaptation is with Starbucks, a company usually associated with selling coffee. While the logo used around the world is identical, you may well find that when you go into Starbucks in different countries what you can buy is not identical. Of course, you can still buy your regular coffee and specialties like latte and cappuccino, but if you go into a Starbucks in China, you will find a wider range of teas on the menu than you will in stores in the West. You can also buy mooncakes during the Mid-Autumn Festival, again not something you are likely to get in a store in London or New York. 
In fact, such differences are not limited to the products that are sold, but can often go much further. Again, a good case in point is with Starbucks. While in the US, it is quite common for morning commuters to rush into a store, grab a coffee to go, and leave, such behavior is far less typical in China. This has meant that the stores in China tend to be bigger and have a lot more seating for people to stay and enjoy their food and drink. You might think this is simply down to the much bigger population in the country, but it’s also a cultural issue ― customers in China like to spend time sitting down, drinking their coffee, chatting with friends, and sometimes even doing their assignments, working on their laptops, and meeting clients. 
By tailoring products and marketing techniques to local conditions, companies that are part of the globalization phenomenon have ensured that they are successful in many different countries despite cultural differences. In today’s global world, it is important to understand local values and not have just a single approach. Companies who fail to adapt and treat the whole world in the same way are likely to struggle. They may have fantastic products, but if they can’t connect with potential consumers, then their products simply won’t sell and they will end up losing out to competitors who operate globally but think glocally. 
